README.md, before:

# Python Music Player 

A simple, lightweight music player built using Python, CustomTkinter, and Pygame. Play your .mp3 files, control playback, and monitor progress—all with a sleek, semi-transparent GUI.

## Screenshot
![Screenshot](Screenshot.png)

## Features

Browse and play .mp3 files from the project folder

Play / Pause functionality

Fast Forward and Rewind controls

Progress Bar to show the current position of the song

Volume Slider to set the volume to the desired frequency

Simple and modern CustomTkinter GUI

Semi-transparent window for a sleek look

Toggle Dark Mode, Light Mode, or just system

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+

- CustomTkinter

- Pygame

- Mutagen

Install using pip install

```bash
pip install customtkinter pygame mutagen
```

## How to Use

- Place your .mp3 files in the same directory as the script.

- Run the Python script:

```bash
python MusicPlayer.py
```

- Click on a song button to play it.

- Use the Pause button to pause/resume playback.

- Use -> to fast forward and <- to rewind.

- Watch the progress bar track the song’s current position.

- Press the "toggle_light_dark" button to toggle from dark mode, light mode, or system.

## **OPTIONAL** Make it into an executable

```bash
pip install pyinstaller
```

```bash
pyinstaller MusicPlayer.py --onefile --noconsole
```

## Code Overview

- songs = [f for f in os.listdir('.') if f.endswith('.mp3')] → Automatically loads all MP3 files in the folder

- play_song(song_name) → Plays the selected song

- pause_song() → Toggles pause/resume

- fast_forward() → Skips forward by a set number of seconds

- rewind() → Goes backward by a set number of seconds

- update_progress() → Continuously updates the progress bar

## Notes / Limitations

- Only plays .mp3 files in the same directory as the script

- Progress bar updates may lag slightly depending on system performance

## Future Improvements

- Support playlists and multiple directories

- Add volume control

- Smooth, continuous progress bar update without jumpiness

- Add GUI themes or custom skins

## License

**MIT License**

Commit message:

Update features list in README.md
Added a search feature to find songs that fit your vibe.

README.md, after:

# Python Music Player 

A simple, lightweight music player built using Python, CustomTkinter, and Pygame. Play your .mp3 files, control playback, and monitor progress—all with a sleek, semi-transparent GUI.

## Screenshot
![Screenshot](Screenshot.png)

## Features

- Browse and play .mp3 files from the project folder

- Play / Pause functionality

- Fast Forward and Rewind controls

- Progress Bar to show the current position of the song

- Volume Slider to set the volume to the desired frequency

- Simple and modern CustomTkinter GUI

- Semi-transparent window for a sleek look

- Toggle Dark Mode, Light Mode

- Search feature so you can the song that fits your vibe

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+

- CustomTkinter

- Pygame

- Mutagen

Install using pip install

```bash
pip install customtkinter pygame mutagen
```

## How to Use

- Place your .mp3 files in the same directory as the script.

- Run the Python script:

```bash
python MusicPlayer.py
```

- Click on a song button to play it.

- Use the Pause button to pause/resume playback.

- Use -> to fast forward and <- to rewind.

- Watch the progress bar track the song’s current position.

- Press the "toggle_light_dark" button to toggle from dark mode, light mode, or system.

## **OPTIONAL** Make it into an executable

```bash
pip install pyinstaller
```

```bash
pyinstaller MusicPlayer.py --onefile --noconsole
```

## Code Overview

- songs = [f for f in os.listdir('.') if f.endswith('.mp3')] → Automatically loads all MP3 files in the folder

- play_song(song_name) → Plays the selected song

- pause_song() → Toggles pause/resume

- fast_forward() → Skips forward by a set number of seconds

- rewind() → Goes backward by a set number of seconds

- update_progress() → Continuously updates the progress bar

## Notes / Limitations

- Only plays .mp3 files in the same directory as the script

- Progress bar updates may lag slightly depending on system performance

## Future Improvements

- Support playlists and multiple directories

- Add volume control

- Smooth, continuous progress bar update without jumpiness

- Add GUI themes or custom skins

## License

**MIT License**
